
- [Ubiquiti Has A Rock Solid Balance Sheet](https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ubiquiti-nyse-ui-rock-solid-120011061.html)
- [June 30, 2025 Debt Graph](./ui-25-debt-graph.webp)

Warren Buffett famously said, 'Volatility is far from synonymous with risk.' It's only natural to consider a company's balance sheet when you examine how risky it is, since debt is often involved when a business collapses. We can see that Ubiquiti Inc. (NYSE:UI) does use debt in its business. But the more important question is: how much risk is that debt creating?

### When Is Debt Dangerous?

Debt assists a business until the business has trouble paying it off, either with new capital or with free cash flow. If things get really bad, the lenders can take control of the business. However, a more frequent (but still costly) occurrence is where a company must issue shares at bargain-basement prices, permanently diluting shareholders, just to shore up its balance sheet. Having said that, the most common situation is where a company manages its debt reasonably well - and to its own advantage. When we examine debt levels, we first consider both cash and debt levels, together.

### How Much Debt Does Ubiquiti Carry?

As you can see below, Ubiquiti had US$249.6m of debt at June 2025, down from US$706.4m a year prior. However, because it has a cash reserve of US$149.7m, its net debt is less, at about US$99.8m.

### A Look At Ubiquiti's Liabilities

Zooming in on the latest balance sheet data, we can see that Ubiquiti had liabilities of US$710.9m due within 12 months and liabilities of US$87.3m due beyond that. Offsetting these obligations, it had cash of US$149.7m as well as receivables valued at US$244.6m due within 12 months. So its liabilities outweigh the sum of its cash and (near-term) receivables by US$403.8m.

This state of affairs indicates that Ubiquiti's balance sheet looks quite solid, as its total liabilities are just about equal to its liquid assets. So it's very unlikely that the US$42.1b company is short on cash, but still worth keeping an eye on the balance sheet. Carrying virtually no net debt, Ubiquiti has a very light debt load indeed.

We use two main ratios to inform us about debt levels relative to earnings. The first is net debt divided by earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), while the second is how many times its earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) covers its interest expense (or its interest cover, for short). This way, we consider both the absolute quantum of the debt, as well as the interest rates paid on it.

Ubiquiti has a low net debt to EBITDA ratio of only 0.12. And its EBIT covers its interest expense a whopping 27.3 times over. So you could argue it is no more threatened by its debt than an elephant is by a mouse. On top of that, Ubiquiti grew its EBIT by 68% over the last twelve months, and that growth will make it easier to handle its debt. When analysing debt levels, the balance sheet is the obvious place to start. But it is future earnings, more than anything, that will determine Ubiquiti's ability to maintain a healthy balance sheet going forward. So if you're focused on the future you can check out this free report showing analyst profit forecasts.

Finally, a business needs free cash flow to pay off debt; accounting profits just don't cut it. So we always check how much of that EBIT is translated into free cash flow. Over the most recent three years, Ubiquiti recorded free cash flow worth 53% of its EBIT, which is around normal, given free cash flow excludes interest and tax. This free cash flow puts the company in a good position to pay down debt, when appropriate.

### Our View

Happily, Ubiquiti's impressive interest cover implies it has the upper hand on its debt. And that's just the beginning of the good news since its EBIT growth rate is also very heartening. Considering this range of factors, it seems to us that Ubiquiti is quite prudent with its debt, and the risks seem well managed. So we're not worried about the use of a little leverage on the balance sheet. There's no doubt that we learn most about debt from the balance sheet. However, not all investment risk resides within the balance sheet - far from it. We've identified 1 warning sign with Ubiquiti , and understanding them should be part of your investment process.

At the end of the day, it's often better to focus on companies that are free from net debt. You can access our special list of such companies (all with a track record of profit growth). It's free.
